It's 9:00 a.m. in Hong Kong, in
Singapore, 10 a.m. in Tokyo. Markets in
Greater China are shut, of course, but
you are watching the China show, and I'm
Annabelle Drooers with David and Glaz.
>> Good morning. Let's get to your top
stories today. Japanese stocks are
rallying for a second day following Sana
Takahi's election, of course, as the
next prime minister. Asian shares are
also catching bit of a tailwind is an
understatement. They're coming out of
that AMD deal with Open AI.
>> Yeah. And on that front, we're going to
be hearing from executives of both
companies with AMD taking a high stakes
chance to challenge Nvidia's lead in the
AI computing industry. Also ahead, gold
pushing closer to $4,000 announced here
as the US government shutdown in French
the French political crisis sparking
fresh market uncertainty.
>> And President Trump flags potential
talks with Democrats on healthc care
subsidies to resolve the shutdown
impass.
[Music]
Starting the show with some breaking
news this morning. We've actually just
had the Philippine CPI figures crossing
the terminal here this morning. It's
come in softer than what the estimate
was. So rising 1.7% on the year for
September. uh the estimate had been for
for 1.9 but it is actually a hastening
from the month prior because it was at
1.5% in that period as well. The
Philippine pays though I mean it's not
really changing too much so far.
>> Yeah, we'll have a closer look at the
charts later on as it pertains to the
peso and certainly as we were
highlighting this week inflation is
actually a good is a blessing right now
given the other more dominant negative
issues hounding uh these markets.
Speaking of, let's just uh have a look
at how we're poised as we go into the
thick of Tuesday session here. As we
were pointing out, of course, a couple
of markets are shut today uh mainland
China, you don't have Hong Kong, and you
also don't have South Korea coming uh
online today. All that being said, we
are not short of market moving stories.
We'll get into the AMD story in a moment
there and that massive move from
overnight into where we are. And really,
I think if you think about these two
market themes, the AI story is more than
offsetting the return of the dollar.
really that's down to what's happening
over in Europe and we talked about the
weakness that we're seeing in in in the
Japanese currency. Uh speaking of AI
right so Taiwan flip the page please if
we can and the chip stocks at play there
and also worth me mentioning that
Hanghai is also obviously an Nvidia play
but also reacting to the first time on
the sales number coming out so out of
the gates TSMC is up 2% Hanhai is up as
well Japanese plays are also seeing um
some upside there over the Europe right
now with the blowout in spread to the
highest going back to the very start of
2025 oat futures are online as we speak
still coming under pressure as with uh
the euro. We'll talk about these charts
in a moment. Right. So, we're talking
about the weekly top on the cloud uh as
far as the Japanese yen is concerned.
That's trading at about 1570ish
and change. That's where effectively we
should be looking at there. If you're
looking specifically at a point in time,
it's the high from August one uh on
dollar yen, right? uh gold 4,000 talked
about that the gold play over in
Australia silver and of course where you
are as far as the uh oil market is
concerned so we're close we're 17 bucks
away the most active contract as far as
the futures uh market is concerned and
again a reminder several markets are
shut for China and also South Korea
which would have been likely trading up
I will bet my unhealthy liver on that
given of course this AI play and of
course that AI representation in that
market bill. Yeah, absolutely. I mean,
they're certainly going to be playing
catchup when they come back online, but
it is very much the story being
dominated by tech this morning and and
for good reason. It's it's a huge huge
deal that's been signed between OpenAI
and AMD. So, you just want to set the
context of this. Open AAI is looking to
deploy 6 GW worth of AMD GPU units
rather over multiple years. So, 6
gawatt, you sort of put that in the
context of the recent deal you had
between OpenAI and Nvidia that was for
10 GW. So you actually are you know
you're just over half of that but it is
very significant in size and you saw
that reflected in the share price of AMD
as well. Yeah, 20 plus percent
overnight. Uh you know it this is all
these are all let me use a plural
version of that all coming at a time
when there are questions around the
valuations here and you are getting a
lot more uh on that as well. But it begs
the question now in terms of the size of
data centers and who the winners are as
we is this a challenge to hyperscalers?
I think
>> I think it you can certainly interpret
it in that way. I mean so far if you
take a look at the AI infrastructure
buildout it has been led by the
hyperscalers. So you're talking names
like Amazon, Microsoft, Google as well.
But now it seems to be that that OpenAI
actually wants to become a hyperscaler
themselves. That's sort of what the
shift seems to be. Uh which is why
you're seeing it signing these deals
with the likes of Nvidia, AMD. So
they're sort of also just trying to
diversify where their bets are coming
from. But I think it's really
interesting that you you mention the the
the sort of valuations that we see in
this space as well because that is the
big risk right now that it's sort of
just excess capacity resource
misallocation as well that we actually
haven't really seen getting that full
ROI yet. But it is something that Sam
Alman talked about overnight as well.
>> Yeah, he did. And you know when it comes
from someone of course within the
industry itself, it's it certainly begs
more attention to that and to the point
you're making. Right. So what analysts
are saying yes yes valuations are
looking stretched but they're also at
the same time raising their price
target. So they themselves are also
catching up to the short-term uh
rerating uh of this as well. In fact
let's have a listen to all the
commentary around the key stakeholders
on this big story. Have a listen.
>> Today 4 million developers have built
with open AI. More than 800 people use
chatbt every week and we process over 6
billion tokens per minute on the API.
Thanks to all of you. AI has gone from
something people build play with to
something people build with every day.
>> Um I have full confidence in you know
open AI Sam Greg Sarah. I mean this is a
massive opportunity for us right now
right here. It's about who has the most
compute and how fast can we get it
online and we're committing to doing
this together.
>> We now have an ability for enterprises
to build agents uh in a much more visual
much more intuitive way. Uh you've heard
us say 2025 has been the year of agents.
We think that's true. Uh codeex has been
a great example for us of that. Uh our
coding agent now available through uh
through an API. Also
>> the lead time to make software is a lot
shorter. It's gotten a lot shorter. I
think you saw today we demoed live
demoed I think three or four different
things that we've built uh in real time.
We expect that to continue to be the the
trend.
>> So I think it's really great that Lisa
Sue there from AMD also referenced the
scale of the opportunity because you you
think about AI data centers. I mean
right now today it's around $250 $250
billion market rather but but by the end
of the decade I mean everyone's looking
it to become a $1 trillion market
instead. So we just heard from Bloomberg
Intelligence earlier for instance
talking about where does this leave AMD
in this space and so right now
>> in the race in the race
>> well in their share of the total AI data
center market and and they're in the low
sign single digits right now but
actually if they can totally fulfill
these commitments to open AI they're
looking to take up to a 20% stake in in
the AI data center market so it's it
becomes very significant for the company
>> well a bigger share in what is now
increasingly looking like a bigger pie
as well. So, it's not like they're
taking it from
>> uh some of their peers on the street. Uh
just some of the analyst reactions on
this overnight. So, we talked about
Jeffre and the price target now at 300
on AMD. Barclays is coming out as well
with some commentary here. Prove the
ecosystem is desperate for more compute
to the very point that Bel just made uh
just now. We sharp upward move in the
stock is more than justified. So, how do
we wrap our heads around one story after
the other? And the fact that when you
look at some of the technicals on this,
I mean, is it even worth at this point
in time worrying about technicals given
that you know what, this is short, this
is not a short-term story. This, in
fact, this might not even have to do
with anything
around short-term cyclicals in this
economy. In other words, what I'm trying
to say is, do we need to be worried
about the Fed on the ASO? Maybe not,
because those are two separate things.
The Fed is a short-term conversation.
The AI which seems to be driving the
markets almost purely
>> is a longer term consideration and I
think markets tend to confuse these two
themes uh a lot more. But I mean at some
point uh we'll need to see some rotation
right here because this momentum is
really really uh strong. In fact, let's
get let's get a take right now from Mark
Crant. Let's bring him in. Uh he's been
patiently waiting as we were just trying
to set a scene for him right now. Uh
Mark, good morning. Thank thank you.
Thank you for joining us. just I mean I
look at a move of a let's call it 25% on
a stock that is so widely held already
like AMD
>> what else is there you know beyond the
AI plea or is AI play enough currently
to drive this market even further
>> yeah while while I was waiting the AI
bubble got even bigger and it's it's
getting bigger bigger by the minute but
nobody wants to nobody wants to call the
end of the bubble and the the earning
season coming up in the US which has
just just started but the big names
haven't put their their numbers forward
yet will be very significant in this
because obviously in the end what
investors want to see is that all this
AI promise actually translates into hard
numbers in terms of profitability. Now
at the moment that the signs are are
pretty good. We've just had Honai over
the weekend who's a key supplier to
Nvidia produce very good numbers much
better than expected. So that sets up
nicely the US earning seasons because
people will now be expecting they will
see something similar from these large
American companies who are tied up with
people in Asia as well. So it looks as
though we're going to get through this
quarter, the earnings season mostly it's
going to be a good season. It will keep
the momentum going in US markets and
global markets and so people can defer
the risk that this bubble is suddenly
going to deflate and hurt equities
across the board. The risks are getting
obviously the longer it goes on the
bigger the risk for the first quarter of
2026 and by then people are really
starting to get a little bit nervous but
in the short term as you say even the
Federal Reserve is being pushed to one
side. At one point we were very
desperate for interest rate cuts from
the Federal Reserve to keep the momentum
going. Even that's not such an issue
now. It's really now all about companies
delivering, producing good numbers when
they report in the next few weeks. And
if you take Honai as an example, things
are looking pretty decent. People will
be optimistic about it.
>> Yeah. And actually we can just see Honai
there coming back online after that long
weekend, but up 1.1% after we had those
uh monthly sales figures capping off the
last 3 months. But what do you make then
of the move that we see in gold in
particular? Because it's obviously a
haven play. It's pushing ahead toward
4,000.
Does that tell you that that there's
still some nervousness around the levels
we're seeing today?
>> It it does. Um, obviously the
geopolitical risks, the fact that the US
shutdown could go on for for longer,
could be with I think the longest one is
about 5 weeks. People are suggesting it
could be something similar to that. All
of those factors, the there isn't a a
very strong currency around. Gold always
does well when people are disputing
whether or not other currencies are
really havens or not. The yen was
beginning to look like a haven for a
little while and of course this week
thanks to Takiishi has completely upset
the the yen. French problems are
undermining the euro. The US dollar was
already starting to wayne anyway and
we've seen it in the reserve data. The
US share is not as big as a sovereign
wealth currency as it was before. It's
still the biggest but not as much as it
was. So all the major currencies to one
extent or another are all seeing their
value eroded to some degree. That's all
beneficial to gold and silver by
implication as well. But just like the
AI bubble, there is certainly a risk
that we're seeing one in the precious
metals now as well. And the chances are
that that they will come together about
the same time. We're we're building up
to some kind of a scenario like we saw
in 2008 when everybody was concerned
that everything was what they described
as trading to one. every the convexity
of all these positions was so similar
that when one breaks they all break. So
if we see a sudden reversal in tech
stocks that will probably lead to
reversal in gold and it will lead to
reversal in other things as well.
Anywhere where positioning has built up
very large is all at risk. If one of
them goes they all go.
All right, Mark. Looks like I need to
get on Elon Musk's shuttle to to Mars in
that scenario. Mark, just I mean on the
on the relative sort of comparison
within the FX space because you
mentioned of course you know gold seems
to be standing out because of nothing
else seems to look good. We went into
this week with at least in my head US
shutdown and a weak dollar and then
Europe and Japan happened. Do we need to
live with a stronger dollar uh slightly
longer than expected? Mark
Yeah, probably goes a little bit
further. I mean, thanks to the the yen,
especially the yen is obviously the key
driver in this. You've got such a large
currency. When dollar yen jumps 2% and
more, obviously that has a crossber
impact for for all the other markets as
well, that's helping support the US
dollar at the margin. But unless the the
Federal Reserve suddenly turns very
hawkish, the dollar is probably not
going to go very far. I mean, it it can
rise modestly, but it we're not going to
see a huge rally in the American
currency until we get some serious push
back from the central bank in the US
saying that we're not going to be
lowering interest rates, and nobody
really expects that. I think it there's
too much is built into the fact that
lower interest rates, more cuts are
coming. The Federal Reserve will deliver
on that. So, that will pull the dollar
back every time it starts to go forward.
And don't forget the way things are
going, the yen on a trade weighted
basis, the Japanese yen is close to
record lows. And the last time we saw
that was in December 2024.
And that's when we saw severe verbal
intervention soon followed by a Bank of
Japan interest rate hike and everything
turned around. We're getting back into
the territory where the Japanese
authorities will be getting pretty
uncomfortable about the yen. Even though
dollar yen hasn't reached the 160 kind
of area, it's lost ground against so
many currencies overall the Japanese
currency is very weak.
>> Mark, thank you. Mark Granfield in
Singapore there for us out of our Mline
team. Coming up here on show, traders
are bracing for this 30-year bond
auction. Speaking of Japan as the
election there, of course, Sai
Takayichi, uh the LDP leader continues
to move these markets. Details later on
in the show.
And with politics moving markets from
Tokyo to Paris, Brandy Wine Global joins
us next to talk market strategy. And a
reminder, of course, markets in Hong
Kong, mainland China is sharp, but you
are still watching the China show, so
we'll have plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. We're mixed across the
Treasury curve. As you can see, we're
slightly on the steeper side of things.
Of course, there's also a separate
blowout conversation on bund oat spreads
in Europe, highest for the year. Oats
are coming up on your screens. We're
trading right now to the downside here
in the Asia Pacific. Joining us now is
Tracy Chen, portfolio manager at Brandy
Wine Global, joining us out of Philly.
Uh Tracy, good morning from the Asia
Pacific. Thank you for joining us in
this day of age of shutdowns and
concerns over budget deficits a global
equity bull market which we can get to
implications a bit later on. What are
your biggest conviction calls right now
within your strategies?
I think we are still underweight US
dollar and also we still like uh
Japanese yen and at the same time we
still like uh em uh especially latam
>> and let's talk about the direction of of
the Japanese yen then because we have of
course sitting at seen it sitting around
that 150 mark. Do you see that being a
sustained uh reaction in the currency?
I think um there's definitely some some
more room to uh sell off but at the same
time um I I think this might be an
overreaction. Um so on the first day of
the the the victory of the election I
think the market uh overreact. Um I I
don't think um I don't think the new
prime minister will actually deliver uh
the f the expansionary fiscal policy or
very accommodative monetary policy as
people expected because she she actually
softened her tongue and at the same time
if you look at the interest rate
differential of uh J uh the Japanese yen
versus US dollar um I think um the fair
value should be around uh 142 or 143. So
I think it's uh probably a kind of
market overreaction.
>> Okay. And so Tracy, what does that mean
then for this this trade that's been
very popular and profitable which is
shorting JGBs particularly the long end
uh this year? Do you think that that
trade shorting the JGB space continues
to make sense or would you take the
other side of that trade?
I think JGB is definitely the anchor of
global uh global bond market especially
the de developed countries uh bond
market. Uh I I think um if uh this new
prime minister um she she wants to do
more fiscal easing um and the inflation
uh will continue to go higher. I think
the long end potentially have more room
to sell off and at the same time you see
the curve steepening and the correlation
among all developed uh bond market are
uh actually relatively high. So you see
even the US uh uh the US bond market you
see bears steepening as well. Um so so I
think uh it might not be uh the right
time to long JGB yet. There's still more
room for them to sell off and the curves
uh steepening.
>> Well and then to your point where I mean
we've seen the 30-year bond yield for
instance rising to a fresh record this
morning. But what's been interesting at
the same time you've seen this sort of
girrations particularly at the longer
end of the curve in Japan actually
treasuries and expected volatility has
been at its lowest level in around four
years that's sort of being attributed to
to the government shutdown but do you
see that staying the course and and
what's your expectation of where trading
activity goes from here
>> for the US bond market I I think the um
we have seen uh the curve steepening
actually um have some kind of reversal
um in in late September and beginning of
October until this victory uh of um of
Takahuchi. So um the the curve
steepening u we we we might start to see
the curves steepening again. Um but at
the same time you see a lot of exciting
development on the AI front. uh the so
the hope is for the AI development to
boost the productivity and if the
productivity goes higher in the US I
think the inflationary pressure will be
more uh more uh mitigated and then the
the the long end should have some
support and at the same time you you
still have uh Treasury Secretary Scott
Bassant he has a lot of tool to use uh
to uh manage the yield curve right he
can frontload the the the TBO issuance
rather an issue in the long end. So
there's definitely some some um some
some floor uh to the long end. Um and we
we still see there's some value in the
long end but at the same time the it's
it's the the volatility is coming back
because of this JGB development.
>> Tracy, thanks very much and please do
stay with us because we still want to
get your outlook on what's happening in
in China's debt space as well. So, we'll
go back to Tracy Chen in just a few
minutes, but for now, that's Tracy Chen,
portfolio manager at Brandy Wine Global.
Staying with us. We'll have plenty more
ahead. That is the market picture. Very
much an AI dominated story today because
you had a huge deal being signed between
OpenAI and AMD uh to supply GPUs. But
we'll have plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Some of the stories we're following
today and President Trump says he would
negotiate with Democrats over healthc
care subsidies in a bid to resolve the
US government shutdown. The Senate has
rejected for a fifth time a House passed
stop gap bill to keep the government
open through November 21st. Democrats
say they won't support the bill unless
it addresses subsidies set to expire at
the end of the year. After that vote,
President Trump used a true social post
to blame Democrats for the impass while
indicating he'd be open to talks after
the government reopened.
We have a negotiation going on right now
with the Democrats that could lead to
very good things and
>> and I'm talking about good things with
regard to healthcare.
>> The White House AI chief David Saxs says
it's essential for the US to dominate in
AI, defending the Trump administration's
approach to China. Speaking to
Bloomberg, Sax stood by the decision to
let Nvidia and AMD sell less advanced AI
chips to China.
>> We need to be pro innovation. We need to
be pro- infrastructure and pro energy
and we need to be pro export so that the
American technology stack dominates the
world.
>> All right. Uh we should be looking ahead
to the opening bell but uh of course
mainland China remains shut as with Hong
Kong. South Korea is also shut today. So
a lot of volumes off the table today.
There is plenty more ahead here on
showsto.
This is the China show. Good morning.
[Music]
Right, welcome back. A reminder, the
markets here in Hong Kong are shut. It's
the day after the mid- autumn, so our
very best to you and your family and
your friends. And while that is the
holiday today, it does feel like we're
in the thick of summer. Um, if you step
outside, you don't need to go to
burning, man. All you have to do is step
outside. We have one version of that
here in many parts of of Southeast Asia
today. Speaking of burning and red hot,
these equity markets continue to feel
the fuel from this AI frenzy that's
taking place. Socks index overnight up
over 2%. We talked about the AMD story.
It's playing out as far as Taiwan, which
is reopening of course today. Uh, the
bond story of course, well, two things
is one, the shutdown. You have Europe
that's taking place. We'll get to that
in a moment. And of course what's taking
place in uh mainland China where once we
reopen from this long holiday we get
into the thick of things where you have
the activity numbers and eventually
we'll talk about the inflation prints
coming through out of mainland China. On
that note let's bring in let's bring in
Tracy Chan. She's still with us
portfolio manager at Brandy Wine Global
and joining us out of the United States.
Tracy, thanks for sticking around. I
want to ask you about what's going on in
this in the CGB space. So effectively
the 10-year yield relatively speaking
has had a to your to your point right a
bigish move right from 1.6 I think we're
now 1.9%.
Is that is that inflation being future
inflation being priced because so far
the data doesn't seem to be pointing to
inflation coming through the system or
is that simply money going into the AI
plays in the equity space. Tracy
>> yes I think there are several factors.
uh there's definitely technical factors
the rotation of uh of the the rotation
of the the money from the bond market to
the equity market that's uh number one
number two is uh there's some exemp uh
the uh the removal of the exemption of
the tax uh on on the bond purchase I
think that's another factor uh you see
some mutual fund uh or banks that are
setting the the CGB and thirdly uh does
that mean that we are we have seen the
worst of deflation uh where the the
deflationary pressure uh the worst of it
is behind us. Um and at the same time we
see the industrial profit actually um
jumped double digit uh in the months of
uh August. So I think that's a good
sign. Inflation profit uh correlates
very closely with PPI. So uh I think for
for the next uh months we we are hopeful
to see PPI improve a little bit but CPI
are still the CPI still have some
seasonal factors. Um so that that's hard
to predict but I think PPI uh should
improve and you see the commodity boom
uh the the the the metals and also the
precious metals they all rally hard so I
I think uh PPI should should should
improve going forward and probably um we
are in the bottoming process of the
deflationary pressure in China and the
rerating of China's equity equity market
also tells you a lot right it's not just
AI story um it's it's uh entire rerating
of the the risk market in China and uh
you see the R&B also um also rallies uh
rallies uh nicely um and what what I
also want to highlight is uh the export
uh growth in China is pretty healthy
actually um the trade the trade surplus
has exceeded 1.2 2 trillion that's a big
number that's a great support for for
R&B uh outlook and if China wants to
achieve uh the self-sufficiency in the
uh the computer chips I think China
import about 500 billion uh computer
chips from the US if they can achieve uh
self-sufficiency I think that's that's
another boost uh to the trade surplus
going forward
>> Tracy again thank you thank you for that
you know for all those factors that
Does that then mean do you think we get
to 2% on the 10-year yield and how do I
need to be thinking about I don't want
to call it intervention risk but the
resumption uh the resumption of bond
buying in the CGB market. How are you
looking at that specific that that issue
specifically?
>> Yeah, I think that's highly likely. Um I
I don't think POC wants to see uh the
10-year go above two. Um I think they
have to ensure the funding cost to stay
low. They have just too much debt,
right? Low government debt and also
corporate debt. Um I don't think they
can afford for for the uh CGB yield to
to go too much higher from here. So uh I
think they they they probably can uh uh
can can resume bond purchase um if if
the yield go too much higher from here.
>> Tracy, what do you make about uh what's
happening in France right now? Of course
the the resignation of the prime
minister Lornu, it was certainly shocked
many. Some are comparing this to a Liz
trust moment for France. Maybe we're not
quite at that point, but but certainly
when do you see this political crisis
becoming an economic one for the
country?
>> It's so uh interesting that this time
around we are seeing uh the peripheral
countries are doing well whereas the
core European countries are not doing
that well. Um so uh it raised the
question whether France is governable.
Um and and this prime minister has the
shortest tenure, right? Um and I I think
McCong is in a very difficult situation
now. He can either appoint another prime
minister uh and then just invoke the
article 49.3 and at the same time uh he
can he can uh call another snap election
or he he can just resign. uh but but I I
think the political turmoil um make
investor really nervous about this
fiscal uh the fiscal problem right um uh
I I don't think they can reach agreement
on fiscal budget uh for 2026 by the end
of this year so so I think um uh the the
bond curve probably continue to bear
steepen but at the same time the
reaction function of uh ECB like um
Christine Lagard I think she will keep a
floor on on on on euro currency and at
at the same time uh they they can always
uh buy more bond. Um so so I think the
the bond yield probably has a ceiling
going forward but but you you do see the
French spread to German bond uh widened
quite a lot. Um and German bond also
sold off um as well. It's not just it's
not like safe haven anymore. And I I
heard your discussion about gold. I
think gold serves as a true safe haven.
um the the the uh government bond uh is
less of a haven right now.
>> Yeah, as you say, three choices facing
Mcron and and and none of them really
look palatable to him probably right
now. But that was Tracy Chen there.
Thanks so much for joining us, portfolio
manager at Brandy Wine Global. And let's
turn to another country of course that's
seen a lot of political moves recently.
That's Japan and and the new leader of
the ruling party Sana Takayichi
announcing key cabinet posts as she
seems to reassure markets and her party.
Let's get more from our East Asia
government editor John Herskovis. So
John, what have we learned so far from
these attacki appointments and and what
can be gleaned from them as well?
>> Uh sure. What we've seen is uh
appointments to the ruling LDP and we've
seen some really influential power
brokers with a lot of experience move
into top post. This includes TTO
Russell, a former prime minister who's
served in a number of posts, taking over
the uh vice leadership. We also see uh
Suzuki moving into a top post um which
really dictates that we're going
dictates M's Ministry of Finance
influence in what's going to be a part
of her administration and uh Kobayashi
moving in as well shows economic
security. So these appointments show
that Takahuchi is interested in trying
to preserve party unity and at the same
time she's trying to reassure markets
that there will be stability experience
in the leadership of the ruling party as
she goes forward tries to win the prime
ministership race in the in the
parliament and then forms a new
government.
And John,
speaking of forming this new government,
what challenges
could she likely face as she tries to
sort of embark on that endeavor?
>> Uh, sure. I mean, the the key thing is
getting the uh getting the LDP back
together. It's in the minority position
in the two houses of parliament. she's
going to need the help of uh of
opposition groups to win the prime
ministership which she should get but it
also means making concessions which may
not be palatable to people in her party.
One of the things is uh some of the
opposition parties have been looking at
sales tax cuts by appointing these
people into senior LDP positions. It
kind of indicates that this is maybe off
the table. Um, apart from the internal
politics, there are huge international
challenges that are going to face her
right out of the gate. She has an an
Azan trip where she'll meet world
leaders. President Trump is coming to
Japan. Uh, this will be one of the key
tests for her just a few weeks into
office. There's the uh trade dispute
going on with the US trying to get that
trade deal enacted. And also there are
concerns about security um and where
things are going to go with the
relationship. Um having Trump in your
country with only about two weeks in
government is going to be a huge
challenge for her. And then there's
reassuring people in the region.
>> John, thank you so much. John Herskovich
there in Tokyo for us almost now want to
preview that story. Trump and Takahichi
with well the market implication is
certainly a nicke that 50,000 who would
have thought right u this rotation
probably might mean that this un
relative underperformance on the part of
Japan relative to what we're seeing
elsewhere in the region could actually
change as more global money comes back
into this market let's bring in Abashek
Vishnoy out of Singapore for us our
senior Asia equities reporter Abashek
fantastic piece take us sort of thinking
here what does this mean for not just
Japan but sort of other markets that
have outperformed Japan.
>> So you know uh Japan has been doing as
uh good as well. it has been getting a
lot of allocation but what uh Takayichi
coming into equation has changed is the
human backdrop um her pro you know
stimulus stance and you know comfort
with the um you know lower amount of
number of rate hikes essentially means
that Japan can become a preferred
bet in Asia and maybe even in developed
markets for to some extent given the
political instability that we are seeing
in Europe at the moment. Um so in in we
are not saying that you know uh other
Asian markets especially something like
Taiwan, Korea or China would stop
winning money. It's just that Japan
would get more. Japan would get the
biggest share of uh money that that is
now going to get all allocated. That's
the expectation uh from a lot of
investors who are you know very quickly
pricing in that there would be a lot
more fiscal stimulus that will come in.
there would be uh delay in uh rate hikes
and that would mean yen would yen would
weaken um and you know um Japanese
stocks would prosper. Now this is coming
in the backdrop of you know Japan stocks
being relatively cheap than many of
other developed markets like US uh
especially Japan's AI story is yet to be
discovered as nicely as you know we have
seen in China we have seen in the US so
these things coupled with this new
backdrop means that Japanese stocks can
become sort of a core bad bet for you
know someone who was looking to allocate
uh to North Asia as a block.
Yeah. So, Abashek, is this is this fast
money or short-term investors that are
going to be moving in or we talking
about long-term institutional investors?
Because you talk about that AI theme and
and certainly it's a it's a lot more
pronounced in markets like Taiwan or or
South Korea for instance.
>> Well, it is uh fast money. It is the
start of this cycle, the start of this
trade. It has to be fast money. Um I'll
not call it dumb money. It may be smart
money, but for the long-term structural
money to come in, I mean, they'd like to
see how Takayichi sort of navigates the
political landscape, how you know she's
able to um, you know, work around the
parliament and get these bold stimulus
measures approved, how much of that
comes into being. So, as uh, you know,
um, people see more of that, long-term
structural money would get a lot more
comfortable in that. Um, but you know,
Japan already is doing a lot. you know
it is possibly the best bet on in terms
of structural corporate reforms and
Takichi's possible win or possible prime
ministership is actually going to
burnish that case uh the bull case for
Japanese assets. So um you know Japan
has sort of attracted uh about $18
billion in terms of you know money
coming in from foreign investors to its
cash equities um and you know Korea and
Taiwan have also received a lot of money
but Japan is a far bigger market. So as
a percentage of that market cap still
you know very small amount and um from
what we are getting the assessment is
that as long-term money becomes a lot
more comfortable uh with this story this
new story and we can see you know
possibly multiples of this number that
we're talking about in terms of
year-to-ate inflows.
>> Yeah and we're seeing the nick into a
fourth day of gains. That's Bloomberg's
Abashek Vishnoy there in Singapore.
We'll have plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Well, the OpenAI COO Brad Litecat says
the company's incredibly constrained in
its compute power and deals like the one
with AMD will help it build out more
capacity. He also told us about the
importance of investing ahead to keep
pace with demand.
>> We are tremendously computed. um it
feels like we're in this kind of
recurring theme of being compute
constrained and I think the reason for
that is the answer to the question you
asked which is demand right
>> we see there are multiples of demand
that are are latent and untapped uh from
what we uh we have today and even today
obviously by any standard demand and
revenue growth has been uh torid uh in
its in its pace and so really we have to
invest ahead of that and I think that's
going to be the rate limiter for us to
be able to go capture demand whether
it's consumer or enterprise and for us
to be able to build new models
parallelize more experiences, more
product experiences, and then enable
users specifically to be able to use
those products more actively uh in their
daily life at work and at home. And so,
um you know, even things like Sora, the
app we just launched, uh we wish we
could invite more people onto it now,
but uh we just need more compute. So,
the AMD deal, uh we're excited about
being uh you know, directionally a way
for us to do that.
I've got to ask about the report that
Open AAI closed secondary or the ability
for employees to sell shares at a $500
billion valuation. I already asked you
this question, but what is the metric
we're supposed to judge your success by?
The $500 billion valuation, the 6
billion tokens per minute. To you, Brad,
what is it?
>> For me, it's it's actually kind of a a
metric that we um we talked about is is
tokens. It's um you mentioned 6 billion
tokens uh per minute uh on our API. That
is the purest uh for me the kind of
essence of of utility is that
consumption metric and and so we we
actively track that metric to see how
people's consumption of AI is growing
over time. Uh and you see this happen in
amazing ways. So um things like codeex
for example we've seen grow 10x since
August uh purely on consumption of
tokens around coding. Um, and you start
to see that same pattern emerge across
multiple lanes of use and across
multiple areas of work. And that's the
metric I look at because if that number
is going up, it means people are using
us for more things. And that's the
ultimate goal,
>> right? Um, that was at llo there of
course with the open AI co, which of
course all the newsful overnight is
leading to what you're seeing on your
screens right now. And really on almost
on a daily basis, our folks here in the
newsroom and our analysts are having to
deal with the implications of all the
news flips come through. In fact, what
for all for for a look at what all of
this means for the region, let's bring
in our Bloomberg intelligence senior
analyst Masahiro Wakasugi in Tokyo for
us who again almost on a daily basis has
to look at the news flow and has to
figure out what this means. Masahiro,
can I put that question to you? this
deal between open AI and AMD. What does
this mean for the broader AI development
conversation?
>> Uh yes. Uh so uh we think that uh you
know we can at least say that the demand
is quite strong and uh even after seeing
several years of the AI you know demand
boom and uh going forward AMD uh now
expect that uh maybe uh the deal could
generate additional 100 billion US
dollars revenue for the you know AIG GPU
business and uh the companies maybe uh
trying to achieve around maybe a 7
billion US dollar revenue from the AIGB
for this year based on the consensus and
uh the number uh is still quite small
but uh maybe next year the number could
go up and the consensus basis may be
around 10 billion US dollars for the
AIGPU and uh probably on the consensus
basis uh probably over the next four
five years 70 billion US was the
previous uh maybe consensus for the AIGU
But now the company expects additional
hundred billion US dollar could be
possible. So uh maybe uh we think that
the AI demand should continue to be
quite strong and we think that there
should be many things to do in terms of
the AI development and we are still
working on the many you know uh manual
work. So uh we think that uh still we
should see the quite strong AI demand
going forward.
What does this mean for for the overall
tech sector? Because we've been talking
about how how much the the pie as a
whole is expanding here for the AI
server market. Maybe $1 trillion by the
end of the decade. What does it mean for
for for other chips for equipment in
turn?
>> Uh yes. And uh when it comes to uh AI
calculation uh we need of course GPU and
made by Nvidia or AMD but uh we also
need a high bandwidth memory which is a
high performance DRM and uh when it
comes to uh AMD's GPU uh there may be
more chance for uh Samsung electronics
to supply the uh HPM chips and when it
comes to Nvidia so far SK Hixings or
maybe micron they were the major
supplier for the most advanced GPU but
when it comes to AMD Samsung may have
more chance. So in that sense uh the we
could see the a bit in healthier
competition among the uh suppliers for
the uh HBM as well as uh GPU. So I think
that this kind of a healthy competition
should be quite good for the uh when we
think about AI uh industry development.
So in that case uh uh probably going
forward the chip making equipment makers
will uh work on quite several companies
including Samsung Heinix and also Micron
of course in in addition to TSMC.
>> Yeah. What about what about this the the
situation in Japan because we were just
talking with Abashek Vishnoy there from
the equities team saying that the AI
story has been a little bit
underappreciated so far in in Tokyo on
the Tokyo market. Do you see that
shifting at all? Japan's more of the
equipment as you said, the materials
play. Are there any names that stand
out?
Uh, of course uh we have a quite many
equipment companies and the largest
market share is now owned by ASML or
sometimes applied materials but we have
Tokyo Electron or maybe uh we think
about the knowers advantage could be the
major suppliers and the screen holdings
have has a largest you know large market
share for the you know cleaner equipment
and when it comes to the uh you know
automask equipment uh you know uh laser
tech could be the supplier and when it
comes to uh materials uh we have you
know EVM or you know some other
suppliers. So in that case uh we think
that uh going forward some companies
could also benefit from this you know
kind of the market expansion of AI.
Yeah, and indeed I'm just looking at the
biggest movers in Asia today in
Advantist and and Tokyo Electron are
some of the standouts. But that was our
Bloomberg Intelligence senior analyst
there Masahiro Wakasugi in Tokyo. And if
you're a subscriber and if you want to
rewatch that interview, you can via our
interactive TV function TV go. You can
also become part of the conversation by
sending us instant messages. So do check
it out at TVGO. We'll have plenty more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
All right, welcome back. Just a look at
gold, which continues to hit record
after record on a daily basis. Goldman
Sachs out with a new forecast. December
next year, 4,900, which effectively is
28% give or take from the current
levels. And we're already on track, by
the way, for the best year since 1979.
Smashing pumpkins, by the way, are in
town.
[Music]
Welcome back to the China Show. Look,
this is not the beauty shot we take
usually at the top of the 10-hour today,
but you are
>> you're seeing the beautiful Sydney
harour.
>> Oh, that is right. Yes. I'm sorry. To
the point you're making, we're not used
to seeing
>> We're not used to seeing it.
>> Especially this angle, too.
>> Yeah, that is I shame haven't seen that
angle before. But the point is is that
where we're we're seeing that, of
course, because there's a lot of markets
that are shut today, greater China. So,
so mainland plus Hong Kong, Korea as
well uh for for holidays. But what is
trading in the session today? You can
see a very clear theme here because
Australia sort of standing out to the
downside, but you've got the NIK and
Taiwan also heading higher. Taiwan
really leading the charge. So this is
really the tech story, Dave.
>> Uh it really is and I think that's
really showed up in you know when you
look at factor investing and shout out
of course our markets producer Anthony
Stevens for just giving us a heads up as
far as this is concerned. Right. So
here's the here's the plug FTW that's
coming up on your screen. That's the
function you run and effectively what
you get on the terminal is you look at
the big winners from overnight or in
this case over the past week it's really
momentum excuse me that's in many ways
excuse me dominated uh market returns
right so within momentum that's mostly
tech and AI you do get some constituents
there as far as biotech uh popart for
example is doing very well as far as
momentum goes and you have some of these
names also obviously in growth because
they also tend to be large in market cap
size so these are effectively some of
the the trades that have done uh very
well. I actually need some waters. Uh
but yes, thank you so much. Okay, as we
get that water, speaking of liquidity,
uh let's please have a look at momentum
specifically behind the Philly
semiconductor index which of course the
big story overnight was 20 plus% move in
AMD 190 points to the upside on the
socks index which effectively now puts
this massive run from liberation day on
a 14week RSI basis down effectively at
the highest levels on record if you look
back over the last let's call it 15
years or so the sort of new um paradigm
that we're in as far as the AI and
semiconductor space is concerned. Now
valuations
I mean when you hear we're reaching
fairly lofty and extreme levels on on PE
itself you compared it historically but
of course back then there was no
rerating as far as a longerterm AI
runway was concerned but on the number
itself right we're approaching 30 times
on forward PE which effectively puts us
very near in fact we're closer to three
standard deviations than we are to two
uh on forward PE. Now, has that been a
concern? It has been a concern. Has that
stopped the rally? No, it's a question.
Short-term, Bill.
>> Yeah, that's right. I mean, are we in
sort of a bubble right now? Is is one of
the key questions, but certainly
overnight, you saw that rally extending
and and the latest thing to to inject
optimism in into it is is AMD inking
this major deal with Open AI. So, you're
looking at deploying 6 gawatt of AI
chips over multiple years. We had an
interview actually with the AMD CEO,
Lisa Sue. She spoke to us about this
saying how it's mutually beneficial.
There is that big question from the
OpenAI side as well how they're planning
to finance uh these major investments
they're making into chips from the likes
of AMD but also Nvidia. But the OpenAI
president uh Greg Brockman was also in
this interview speaking to us about the
partnership and how as well the company
plans to fund their massive projects.
Take a listen.
>> You can really see that we're very much
in the we just want compute as much
compute as possible. We think this is
important for the economy. We think this
is important for the nation. We think
this is important for humanity. Uh and
so really we're working with everyone in
this whole industry uh in order to to
get as much comput power online as
quickly as we can.
>> Lisa, I'm sorry. Specifics. Where is
this data center going to be? Uh is it
one single site? Is it Oracle uh that
will partner with you on this?
>> Well, actually what this really is is an
announcement of what, you know, AMD and
Open AI are going to do together. Um,
you know, Open AI has a lot of partners
in terms of, you know, where they
deploy. Um, I imagine a lot of it will
be in, uh, cloud service providers. It's
really up to, um, you know, Open AI and
and and Greg and Sam and the team. Uh,
but the the way to think about it is,
um, for this, you know, amount of
compute, it's going to have to be in a
lot of different places. I It's a
massive amount,
>> multiple locations,
>> multiple locations, um, I would imagine,
you know, multiple providers, uh, to
really get this online as fast as
possible. Greg, there is a lot of focus
on where OpenAI is going to get the
money from to fund all of this. Sam
Alolman's big picture commitment is well
documented, right? And and the numbers
in to his mind are in the trillions, but
have you specifically thought about debt
financing for this relationship with
AMD? Have you thought about doing a
specific equity raise? Um, you are very
committed across multiple projects.
Yeah, look the way that I would the way
that I would look at this is that AI
revenue is growing faster than I think
almost any product in history and that
ultimately at the end of the day the
reason this compute power is so
important is so worthwhile for everyone
to build is because the revenue
ultimately will be there. you know, as a
company that is trying to move as fast
as we can, we look at everything, right?
We look at equity, debt, um we look at
trying to find creative ways of of
financing all of this. Um that's been
actually a huge focus of us for the past
couple years is thinking about how can
we possibly build the amount of compute
that is required in order to really
transform this whole economy into an AI
powered economy. And so I think you'll
see lots of creative ideas. Um but
fundamentally I think at the end of the
day it is because we believe
>> I'm sorry to jump in and interrupt and
car just forgive me on this one. The
condition uh of AMD issuing the stock to
open AAI requires you to spend money
basically because you have to deliver
that gigawatt of capacity first. Uh Lisa
I have to ask you if you you have
asurances that open AAI is good for it.
>> Well uh let me be clear. I mean this
deal is a win for AMD. It's a win for
Open AI and it's a win for our
shareholders and and that's kind of the
way we put this together. Um I have full
confidence in, you know, OpenAI, Sam,
Greg, Sarah. I mean, this is a massive
opportunity for us right now, right
here. It's about who has the most
compute and how fast can we get it
online and we're committing to doing
this together.
That was the AMD co Lisa Sue the Open AI
president Greg Brockman of course with
their colleague Ed Lllo on massive
massive move up uh overnight. Kyle Roas
with a senior market analyst at
capital.com. Kyle, good morning and
thanks for thanks for good morning from
Hong Kong. I realize of course you're in
Oz right now.
I mean talk to us. I mean, every time
every time the chart seems to suggest
we're likely going to see a pullback in
US equities,
it just goes the opposite way. How do I
need to be looking at this rally right
now? Do I lean into momentum even
further?
>> Well, I mean, taking your point earlier
about sort of the momentum factor at the
moment, you know, almost everything is
pretty much momentum play right now and
it's so sentiment driven. I obviously
don't have to sort of give you the
numbers here about, you know, how
expensive stocks are at the moment,
especially when you look at sort of
things on a forward price to earnings
basis, but the way that I've been
explaining it to clients is that, you
know, there's lots of questions coming
my way about is this, you know, a bubble
or is a crash coming around the corner.
There's always obviously those fears.
It's almost a um kind of universal
question in the markets at any time.
But, you know, fundamentally, yes, we're
incredibly frothy. Um there's a lot of
big assumptions being baked into the
market now that is kind of supporting
valuations at these levels. But even
still, you know, this is a momentum
driven market and what I would describe
as a buy the break market, which is to
say that like last night when we see the
market pushing to new highs, you see
that as a bullish signal. Flow is going
into stocks, you know, the pie in the
sky or blue sky um ambitions when it
comes to to AI and the likes are pretty
much, you know, being priced in and it's
a cliche thrown around too frequently,
but we're we're priced to per
perfection. So like we have been for the
last few months, we're a market that is,
you know, very prone to shocks right now
because of where valuations are. But
nevertheless, momentum is very strong
and, you know, you can go broke
obviously very quickly trying to to to
short um, you know, short short uh the
rally here.
>> So that means earnings is going to be
really pivotal and a pivotal test for
the market. What happens if we don't see
any ROI on all of this spending on AI?
Is is the market still going to be
patient or can we expect a pullback?
Well, I think there's sort of two things
kind of embedded in that question there,
which is, you know, the sort of
short-term earnings picture, and that
really comes down to the question of
monetization uh by the big hyperscalers
um and whether they can continue to um
outperform in terms of earnings growth.
And, you know, the way that I kind of
almost see it is uh like a pole
vaultter, you know, exceeding record
highs, record highs with with every
jump. um an impossible bar being set for
for for for the jumper but constantly
being exceeded. For example, last
quarter's earnings growth from you know
mag civ companies was almost 30%
exceeding a bar of about 15% going into
that earnings period which you know is
is quite extraordinary. If these
companies don't meet those earnings
expectations going forward there is
going to be that potential uh correction
and will have to be to reflect uh you
know a weaker earnings outlook. The
bigger question though is what you just
touched on is the kind of broader return
on investment on artificial intelligence
as a technology and whether what we're
seeing right now is a lot of capital
being allocated into something that is
going to create excess capacity and
effectively uh a lot of uh misallocated
resources. If that happens to occur and
that's because effectively artificial
intelligence proves to be a hype then
that's catastrophic for the market.
However, that's a bigger bigger story, a
bigger picture story and one that we're
we're probably not going to confront um
you know this earning season for
example.
>> Yeah, Kyle, I'm not sure if you follow
athletics. You mentioned the pole pole
vault um event. Mondo Duplantis of
course the world record holder almost
does it incrementally almost 0.1 at a
time. Um and sort of the reason I bring
that him pushing the boundaries ever so
slightly even further is do you think
when I look at markets right now and
people talk about don't look at the
short term in AI look at the longer term
look at the runway how useful is it to
use these current market metrics of PE
30 times earnings do these matter right
now as an indicator of expensive
valuations expensive stocks or
Well, it is that age agile question of
whether this time is different. Um, and
maybe it is different this time. And I
think fundamentally if you do think that
artificial intelligence is going to be
world changing, what you're actually I
believe saying is that effectively um
these LLMs will get to a point that they
displace human labor to the to the point
that productivity absolutely booms.
profits are almost uh you know unlimited
and as a result you know these kind of
multiples no longer sort of reflect the
same world uh that we used to live in
and when they were once uh you know
obviously a valuable tool to sort of
assess you know the fair value of
something. The big if is whether we do
start to see that um evidenced in the
data and evidenced in the real economy
where AI is truly displacing human labor
um and is leading to this kind of
productivity boom. This comes out
outside of my kind of circle of of
competence by by some way. But for this
point in time, most of these LLMs aren't
delivering, you know, kind of novel
thought. Some of them are. Some of them
are in the pipe works, obviously
delivering kind of novel thought that
could, you know, genuinely displace
human labor. At the moment it really is
kind of a very good guessing machine and
uh a very powerful search engine which
you know if you know nothing else can
provide at least a very easy way to
consume things uh and make life a little
bit easier but may not be world
changing. So it really does depend on
whether basically the AI hype is met uh
if if we do see it materialize if it
doesn't then we're you know this time
isn't different and things have to
correct to reflect you know maybe harsh
realities.
Yeah, I guess so. You've still got that
race toward AGI or artificial general
intelligence where maybe you'd have
better capabilities than than the human
mind. But but leaving that to the side
for now, what about the the market uh
moves that we're seeing around gold in
particular? We just had Goldman Sachs,
for instance, raising their December
2026 forecast to $4,900 an ounce.
>> How long do you see that playing out?
And what's it expressing as well to you?
For me, it's expressing basically the
expectation that governments around the
world are going to run economies
incredibly hot into next year. And one
of the reasons, and I think the Japanese
situation was very illustrative, that
governments want to do this is, you
know, one, there's kind of a mandate now
from the public to effectively ensure
full employment at all times and and
much higher uh economic welfare than say
we saw in the 2010s. and that kind of
what you could call uh that kind of um
secular stagnation period. But the other
part of it and this is crucial too and
is tied into the AI trade is the
strategic competition that is emerging
that is forcing governments to try and
reshore a lot of industry ensure a level
of of independence uh and a protection
of national interests uh both again from
economic purposes uh but also military
and strategic and competition purposes.
And this is a kind of very precarious uh
uh dynamic because it means there's a
lot of public money, a lot of deficit
spending that's going to be um pumped
into economies in the United States as
we've seen in Japan maybe to an extent
as well um depending on how things
evolve in Europe over the next few
months. Uh in Europe too, you know, the
German sort of releveraging, public
releveraging is the example there. gold
is effectively suggesting that nominal
growth is going to be extraordinarily
strong going forward and that investors
wary of the value of government debt are
allocating more to to to to gold as a
safe haven or at least as a store of
value. So that's the dynamic we're
seeing and again until we sort of see
that kind of breakdown this sort of new
era of economic statecraftraft where
governments are focused on reshoring
manufacturing uh and defending their
strategic interests I think gold in the
long run just continues to rise.
Kyle, thank you so much sir for all of
that. Kyle Roa there, senior market
analyst at capital uh.com. I mean just
the two market themes of the day
dominated that u for good reason. Golden
also AI. Okay. Uh just some lines coming
through and let me just reorganize my
screens here so I can get to both uh for
you guys. Let me start things off with a
line coming through. This concerns
Taiwan uh and the president here.
Yeah. effectively saying that he hopes
for a continued Trump support to deter
China and of course separately and I I
believe this might be also part of the
lines coming through is that Taiwan
supports TSMC to invest in the US, Japan
and also Germany. I want to extrapolate
beyond that. That's the headline we're
seeing so far. Separately, uh we're also
hearing from China's Ministry of Foreign
Affairs that China's Premier Lee Chang
will be visiting
North Korea and I believe we also have
some dates now being attached to that.
Let me just look at my limited number of
screens and I think the dates there are
October, bear with me. I think it's
October 11 or 13. I'll correct myself
anyway. Okay, let me just make sure of
that uh before I get to that. a bit
later. Okay. Um, let's tell you what
else is coming up here, Bill.
>> Yeah, we're going to be actually looking
at Japan's growing investments in
defense data set as the public becomes
increasingly worried about potential
regional threats. Plus, we'll take a
look at the mass of disinformation or
misinformation being generated around
Japan's incoming leader Takahuchi. We'll
have plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. Almost right on queue with
the yen topping 150. We're getting some
commentary coming through here out of
Mr. Kato talking about how it well
obviously it's key for FX to move stably
uh reflecting fundamentals. uh also
other key things that closely watching
for any excessive moves in the FX
markets are those initial signs of
verbal intervention that's a question
mark of course now u I think a chart's
coming up on your screens very shortly
and this is we're going to give a shout
out to uh Michael Wilton of course out
of our FX team for effectively helping
us understand what are the levels to
watch as we've broken above 150 um and I
think one specific level and I'm going
to bring Michael in in a moment here to
talk us through this August one high of
just above of 150 which if we close
above that might confirm this bullish
uptrend we're seeing. We're right in the
middle of that as far as this pair is
concerned. Michael Wilson joins us right
now, our FX and rates reporter out of
Sydney. Michael, yes. So that's the
that's the headline for you. Help us
understand and make sense of all these
lines on the chart beside me here.
>> Sure.
Um okay. Well, yes. So it's proceeding
nicely up inside that channel and that's
all very good but um you know if you
look at that uh that's actually a weekly
yen chart uh and it's a through the uh
eyes of a Ichimoku uh cloud. So u if you
look at along the top of that cloud the
lead line there it's um a lot of uh
previous calendar highs around that 150
90 to 150 120 25 level and I think that
that's probably the true level. There
was a lot of talk going into this um you
know Monday morning people were
obviously scrambling and looking for a
level to fade it uh you know with um Fed
coming up and everything like that. So
um they wanted to fade the move but you
know some of got in and got out you know
because the move kept going I think the
yen fell 2% yesterday. So um as we
approached uh that level but there was
genuine stalling. Um we saw uh Honda
come out and um uh the Takahuchi's
advisor and say that you know yen above
150 wasn't uh desirable and I can say
that with the benefit of hindsight. Ko's
just come out and said you know uh a
little bit of jawbon as well. So you
know it's obviously going to be a bit of
a problem and it's going to suit that
narrative where I do think there might
be genuine resistance around that 151
level and that's illustrated in that in
that chart line there. So while we are
up in the we are proceeding up in that
uh that channel that bullish channel I
do think that we're going to do uh some
hard lifting uh to close above that 1501
130 area uh and if we if we fail to if
it's rejected um that's interesting in
and of itself because we're heading into
obviously BJ end of the month but
there's also an apex summit so you've
got a couple of macro drivers there if
if dollar was say around that 151 level
um you know ministry of finance would be
under the pump to uh probably push that
a little bit lower because it would be a
very awkward conversation on the
sidelines of that apex summit between
the US and Japan as to um the yen
weakness how it it's it's reacted maybe
on a bit of a liquidity squeeze and all
that and that's that's fine but uh it's
actually held the level so um that will
become problematic uh closer to the end
of the month um as to the uh okay
>> you know the bank of Japan itself um I
think that you know the market is
obviously looking for a reason to jump
back in by the and but they I think
they're not going to have much
opportunity for a um you know any sort
of true hawkish commentary out of the
central bank.
>> So Michael, okay, we've had the Ichimoku
cloud. We can also move to a stochastic
slow chart as well and take a look at
what's happening in the Kiwi dollar
right now. So what can you tell us?
>> Well, Kiwi's actually just, you know,
staged its own um mini recovery before
RBNZ tomorrow and it's doing uh doing
rather well. But look, all bets are off
come uh this time tomorrow because uh
you know there's talk, you know, every
bit of data that's come out of late, you
know, it's either 25 or 50, you know, is
it a dobish 25 basis point uh cut, which
will probably cause a bit of a mini
squeeze to the top of that channel where
it would only ever get resold anyway. um
you know the the narrative from the
strategists and the uh all the
economists is that they should probably
go 50 rather than just you know to try
and turn the turn the ship around a
little bit. Um there was a business uh
opinion survey out today which was soft.
Uh and if they're trying to actually
fire up the economy, you know, get some
green shoots going. Well, they're
probably going to have to go 50 earlier
and frontload that uh stimulus.
Otherwise, um this is going to be like
death by a thousand cuts. And
technically speaking, if we close below
that uh 57 54 low uh a couple of weeks
ago, uh that's very bearish signal. It's
quite a quite a gap. So, we could see
probably a 56 handle easily next week.
Uh, if they don't, even if they if they
were to go 25 and without sound
reasoning why, um, I can't see how they
could come up with three things that
would, you know, make it seem bullish on
the Kiwi at the moment, but if they if
they were to, you'd probably only just
get a squeeze and the market would
resell it because, you know, that the
market sometimes is inclined to uh
reward uh a proactive central bank. um
you know and if they see 50 up front QV
might go down first but then you might
see a bit of short covering and it'll
consolidate but if they if they see that
there's no real determinant to stimulate
the economy they'll just keep pulling on
those shorts and u that 5750 will be on
the radar for a while so even though it
is a um a bullish channel it's uh it's
vulnerable at best
>> Michael really great to have your
insights this morning that was our FX
and rates reporter Michael Wilson there
in Sydney and remember of course
terminal All subscribers can interact
with the charts we show using GTV Go.
Browse recent charts featured on
Bloomberg TV to catch up on key analysis
and save those charts for future
reference. We'll have plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Just some lines crossing the terminal
here. Hearing from uh the the the
incoming Japanese leader Sane Tahichi
this morning talking about the the plans
to work with Trump. She's saying that
they want to have a free open
Indo-Pacific region. It does seem like
maybe the Trump administration is
looking at at making a stop in Tokyo
later in the month. Uh this would be of
course really an important and very
early test for Takiuchi as well about
how she plans to manage that
relationship with Washington moving
forward but that's what we're hearing so
far.
>> Yeah because so far the focus has really
been on the domestic agenda, the economy
and what it means for fiscal spending.
Uh this might give us an initial clue as
it pertains to the foreign policy stance
there. Um lots more on Japan coming
through uh in the next uh next segment
here. Before we get to that, just very
briefly, we've talked about gold a lot
in the last hour or so. So Goldman's
upped its target to 4,900.
Um, Standard Charted, by the way, is
coming up in the next hour. Bloomer
television. Suki Cooper will be talking
us through, of course, their new take on
gold. As you can see, gold is gold and
crypto play specifically. Um, are also
doing very, very well today as we inch
ever closer to the 4,000 level. Um, I
don't think I mentioned the 4,900 target
now of Goldman Sachs. Sorry about that
without the specifics. More on that in a
moment. Plus, of course, this deep dive
into Japan.
[Music]
It's 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo this morning.
Japanese markets are just about to go
onto their lunch break, but not before
we haven't been getting really a flurry
of of updates because there's been a
presser going on at the LDPHQ.
And we're getting some lines crossing,
including from Takiuchi who's who's
talking about plans to work with Trump.
She wants a free open Indopacific
region. We're also hearing from Shinuki
Suzuki as well who could be taking a
really key post in the new
administration as well. But but he's
saying that the trust between the LDP
come is is is firm. They've had an
ongoing or an existing coalition with
that political party as well. So that's
what he's saying about that. Uh he's
also talking about essentially you need
to have investment in Japan. You can't
achieve growth without that. But still
at the same time you do need to value uh
fiscal discipline and that can't be
ignored as well.
>> Don't don't don't throw it out the
windows. I think those are two very
important points because they're coming
at a time when I guess to some extent
markets are questioning to what extent
we can sort of stretch those concepts
both on is it going to be with the come
party number one and number two is is it
going to be a lot more juice in this
economy as far as fiscal push is
concerned and just on the sort of
surface value of those two statements
that doesn't seem to be something that
we should be too uh liberal with that's
well just to borrow part away. Pont
there. Go ahead. Go ahead, Bill.
>> No, I just need to make a correction
there. So, so we said that LDP uh
presser is ongoing at the LDP HQ. I
mentioned that Takiichi line about plans
to to work with Trump to have an open uh
Indo-Pacific region. That actually was
from an an ex post or a post on the
social media platform X. But she's
essentially saying very pleased to
receive such a warm warm words rather of
congratulations from Donald Trump and
she's hoping to work toward him as well
or with him rather on their alliance and
make it even stronger and more
prosperous. So that's in response to to
an earlier post on ex from from
President Trump there.
>> Yeah. Uh that's ahead of course of the
likely trip coming up of course.
>> Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Possibly
looking to make a stop uh President
Trump in Tokyo later this month. But
let's get more on on what we're hearing
so far from about Takiuchi coming in
possibly going to be the first female
leader in Japan years ahead of the US as
well. But let's bring in our opinion
columnist Godei who thinks Japan's
incoming leader is generating buzz and
misinformation in equal measure. So, so
Gro, it was a really great piece from
you just sort of laying out some of the
key areas we're hearing around gender
equality, her her fiscal discipline or
her stance on on on on fiscal spending.
What is standing out to you so far about
that buzz, but also that misinformation?
>> Well, certainly, you know, there's a lot
of buzz in the markets. I think a lot of
people found themselves um a little bit
uh mispositioned, a little bit too
confident that uh Kisami was going to
win the election. So now you're seeing a
real uh sort of like um you know
backlash to that um in the markets. I
kind of feel a little bit of the you
know the Abonomics 2.0 uh froth is is a
little bit too much. You know Takichi is
going to have a far more constrained
position than than Chinszo AB had when
he came in uh as leader. He had a you
know huge majority and a huge mandate to
get things done. Takichi has a much
weaker position in the party. she has a
much weaker position in parliament and
she's going to have to do a lot of very
practical things before she has any big
free spending plans that she's able to
to get through parliament. So I would I
would dial back the hype on that front
just uh just a little bit before anyone
gets too excited that we're going back
to the to the um you know a era uh fun
times. in terms of the, you know, the
the misinformation. Um, I do think a lot
of people have been a little bit sort of
like wrong-footed about, you know, what
they knew about Taki or how much they
knew about her. There's a lot of stuff
going around that cast her as, you know,
a very radical, you know,
ultraconservative
figure. I think that also goes a little
bit too far and I think people should
pay a little bit more attention to what
she says and the policies that she's
outlining. We're going to get a clearer
idea of that, I think, in the coming
weeks, presuming she gets confirmed as
prime minister next week. So, pay more
attention to that, I think, than uh than
anything you might see online.
>> Well, that then begs the the opposite
question here, Gro. Does what's the
likelihood of nothing changing?
I mean nothing um
there's not a big chance of nothing
changing shall we say. Obviously Takahi
comes from a a very different side of
the LDP to uh Ishiba who is very much on
the the left wing of the LDP. Takichi
certainly is you know a very
conservative choice. Um they have very
different views on many kinds of things
including um spending. However, you
know, the first thing Takichi is going
to have to do is going to have to be
very practical policies. She has to
rebuild support for the LDP within the
country. Uh voters are really annoyed.
They're upset with the LDP. They're
upset with inflation. The first thing
she's going to have to do before we get
to any, you know, big spending, before
we get to any, you know, change in
foreign policy, she's going to have to
figure out a way to get voters on board.
That means putting cash in their
wallets. I think that's going to consume
at least the first couple of months uh
of her uh term as she tries to compile
uh an extra budget in order to you know
do something do anything in order to
alleviate voters concerns about
inflation.
>> Gro, one final question for you. Foreign
policy, what can we extrapolate? What's
not what's not noisier? What what's
what's real
>> in terms of foreign policy? you can very
much expect I would say a continuation
of um AB's thoughts on you know a strong
Japan that sits you know side by side as
a more equal partner with the US and um
one that you know is a strong presence
with the US in uh Japan. she will very
much try to I think emulate the
relationship that uh Abbe had with
Donald Trump and maybe try to exploit
the fact that they both were close to
Abbe. Of course, the big risk is that
China and South Korea relations, you
know, with both of those countries
improves a lot uh under um first
Fumioisha and then Ishiba. Um they are
already looking at her uh very
skeptically and it depends what kind of
position she takes. Um does she for
example visit Yasukuni Shrine? That
could be a a big potential flash point
in the months ahead. Having said that,
she has moderated her stance this time.
When she ran for election last year, she
uh very outright said that she would
continue to visit Yasakuni Shrine as
prime minister. She has uh essentially
dodged that question every time she's
been asked it um this time around. So,
she's clearly being a little bit more
pragmatic uh this time around. That has
gotten her into uh you know, top job in
the LDP. And I think we can assume that,
you know, surrounding her, she also has,
you know, she has a she has a lot of
debts to pay, shall we say? She has
debts to pay to the likes of of Taro Asa
who helped elevate her into this
position. And we can expect or at least
I expect that she will be in the short
term she will be try to be more
pragmatic and try to avoid any potential
flash points from which there's very
little for for her to gain in the near
term.
Gro, thank you so much. Groi there in
Tokyo for us our Bloomberg opinion
columnist on everything including into
foreign policy and what this really
means for what is largely still
perceived as a pacifist Japan. We're
looking at defense related stocks
because that sector has been very much
in focus amidst this pick up in spending
changing in mindsets uh certainly with
tensions with mainland China you have
North Korea Russia let's bring on
politics and security reporter
Alistister Gail for more on this and
Alistister I mean the the title the
headline is pacifist Japan is boosting
its spending on defense startups and
what has changed in a country that's
traditionally been fairly riskaverse
when it comes to that spectrum uh of
corporate Japan.
>> That's right. I mean, a lot is changing
right now. As you say, you know, there
are threats from around the region that
Japan worries about. China, North Korea,
and even Russia to Japan's north. I
mean, really over the last 5 years,
you've seen a sort of shift in thinking
about what Japan should do to deal with
that. uh obviously in the background as
well as Russia's invasion of Ukraine
which made people worry about a larger
power trying to take over a smaller
power and could that uh manifest itself
in Asia as well perhaps over Taiwan. So
Japan has sort of come around to the
idea that you've just got to boost
defense spending and you've got to boost
uh the defense sector which historically
be has been quite small in Japan. you
only have a handful of large companies
which provide equipment uh to the
Japanese military, the self-defense
forces as it's known. Uh and it's been
relatively small compared to uh other
major countries even compared to South
Korea next door. Um so what the
government is trying to do is encourage
the the growth of that sector and one
part of that puzzle is bringing in
smaller businesses uh startups who have
innovative ideas about defense
technology you know think areas like
drones AI that kind of you know new
cutting edge technology often that's
brought into the um defense sector by
these kind of smaller creative more kind
of scrappy businesses and that is also a
cultural change for Japan. It doesn't
have a large entrepreneurial sector that
is changing but it's coming from a small
base. So what's happening here now is
the government's trying to sort of
promote uh the growth of those companies
is offering finance for them. It's
saying you know we want to incorporate
you into our defense sector. you were
important to us. And we're also seeing
younger Japanese who are more worried
about uh the regional security picture
wanting to contribute to that and
breaking through what's really been a
historical taboo about being in the
defense business here. So, a lot is
changing. It's starting from a small
scale, but we're starting to see uh
entrepreneurs and people who want to
contribute to defending Japan from what
they see as the rising threats coming up
with new ideas. And that will over time
perhaps lead to a more robust, more kind
of filled out Japanese defense sector.
>> Yeah, I feel like you've sort of really
gone through I guess what what the
contribution can be in the sense that
>> that startups can be a little bit more
agile and they can contribute that
innovation maybe you don't get from the
industry behemoths. But but what are the
challenges then to the success of
startups in the in the country as well
given this has been sort of an
underinvested area?
Well, one of the challenges is money, of
course. Um, you know, attracting capital
uh into startups is is a challenge here
in Japan. Uh, it is the the VC sector is
growing, but there is some reluctance to
invest in uh the defense business. Uh,
so Japanese companies, you know, have a
problem these startups of access to
capital. uh the government is trying to
contribute to that by doing being really
a matchmaker for these companies to find
uh investors. Uh they're more you know
more Japanese companies are going to
sort of global uh events to try and
raise their profile to try and attract
uh investors. So money is a big part of
this. Uh obviously a lot of this
technology is very cutting edge. It may
not work. uh you may be looking at uh
something that you spend a lot of time
and effort into but essentially you know
comes to nothing. So there's the risk
side of things which you know Japan
doesn't have uh you know that kind of
culture. Of course there's been you know
big risktakers in Japanese business in
the past. Think of like companies like
Sony and Toyota but in recent years the
kind of entrepreneurial spirit has
perhaps been less in the forefront. So
it's trying to sort of move back into
that kind of more risk risk uh risk on
type approach to doing business. But of
course that you know the upshot of that
may be that you may end up with nothing.
Uh so there's there's various factors
that are challenges uh for the business
of defense here.
>> What about the challenge of also your
your your export markets? There are a
range of restrictions in place including
on exports of of lethal military
equipment for example.
H how do they overcome that? And I guess
for certain types of technologies, you
mentioned drones for instance, there's
always surveillance or reconnaissance,
but but what does that mean then for I
guess their their grow these startups?
>> That's right. I mean, there are still
restrictions on exports as you
mentioned. Japan has gradually kind of
loosened those restrictions. Uh in 2014,
you know, there was still a complete ban
on defense exports. that's been lifted,
but there's still a general ban on
anything which is considered to be
lethal weaponry. So, think things like
missiles, even suicide drones. So, those
kind of things, you know, it's hard to
get uh markets overseas for those
because you still have to deal with the
fact that uh those restrictions exist.
The government is trying to um find ways
around that. We had a big deal recently
uh here for Japan to sell warships to
Australia. So, it's making exceptions.
is trying to find ways to work around
those restrictions. And I think, you
know, it's interesting now with uh
Takayichi coming in as the head of the
LDP, she's very forwardleaning on having
a robust defense sector. We may see more
momentum in in rolling back those
restrictions, particularly if we see
some kind of change in the government
with perhaps uh you know more hawkish
elements who have sort of more sway in
the government. see that, you know,
really now is the time for those uh
restrictions to be lifted in total, but
the challenges still remain. So, it's a
kind of case-bycase process. Businesses
here talk about lots of paperwork that
they have to do to get exports approved,
but we are seeing some changes and it's
becoming easier.
>> Yeah. Yeah, and on that point, I mean,
we just heard from Takahuchi in the last
few minutes in a in a in an expose
saying she's committed to a free and
open Indo-Pacific, but sometimes of
course building up your weapons
capabilities is a key aspect of of
deterrence as well. But that was
Bloomberg's Alistair Gale there in Tokyo
for us. And just ahead, sovereign wealth
funds and global money managers are
jumping into LG Electronics India IPO.
We'll have details of the anchor
investors coming up. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. Uh just looking ahead of
course to the cash market open in India.
Big day there. Um and it's shaping up to
be a big year for ECM. Futures are
pointing to the upsides. Uh the IPO
market, we alluded to that just now. Of
course, the proceeds this month are
expected
to cross a record $5 billion. You have
the sovereign uh wealth funds plural of
Abu Dhabi, you have Norway, Singapore
have all become anchor investors
and of course the big name we're talking
about today which is the Indian unit of
LG Electronics will start trading and
take will start taking orders from
public investors later today. That's the
operative word it expects to list on the
14th of October.
>> Yeah, as you said, I mean it's it's set
to be a record month for Indian IPOs. So
you're looking at proceeds maybe
crossing $5 billion in in October alone.
But let's get more with our Asia
equities reporter Ash Joshy now joining
us. So Ashtoh,
why are we seeing this frenzy right now
with this huge amount of of capital
being raised essentially?
Hi uh thanks for having me on the show.
Uh India is set for a year of uh records
uh probably crossing last year's 21
billion uh funds raised via IPOs. Uh
what's driving a demand for uh new
listings in India? Uh is funds coming
from mostly institutional investors? uh
there is demand for new listings uh
which are seeing a strong participation
from domestic as well as foreign
investors. Uh what's driving uh the
demand from domestic investors is money
coming via mutual funds wherein retail
investors participate uh big way. Uh
companies have been able to raise funds
at valuations uh perhaps much higher
than some of the biggest markets in
India. uh that that allows uh uh
investors such as private equity fund to
exit uh their investments through a
listing of companies. Uh this is helping
uh India's IPO market uh remain robust
and has helped India uh became one of
the busiest places again this year uh in
terms of capital raising
>> and I mean certainly it helps that you
have such a big listing coming. It helps
that the market is not doing too badly.
In terms of the brands behind this
though, do they help? Tata LG for
example.
>> Uh Tata LG both are big brands and as
expected uh their anchor uh portions,
anchor IPO portions were subscribed by
global names. Uh LG's uh anchor
investors included some of world's
biggest sovereign funds. uh Tata uh we
also saw strong participation from
domestic mutual funds and uh insurer uh
life insurance corp of India as well as
funds managed by Goldman Sachs uh and
Fidelity also participated
u anchor participation indicates that
these uh IPOs are set for strong demand
uh we already saw almost 40% of Tata
Capital's IPO sold on first day itself
So investors are hopeful both IPOs
raising more than dollar1 billion each
will see strong demand.
>> When you've got so much IPO activity
though what happens to to to market
liquidity has there been any sort of
impact on that?
>> Yes. uh secondary market in India is
undergoing a sort of rare patch of lean
performance. Uh India's benchmark nifty
index has trailed its Asian peers by its
biggest margin in more than almost 30 uh
years. Uh this this comes on back of a
strong performance of some of the peers
like China and Korea. Uh however despite
this uh Indian equities are on course
for their 10th straight year of uh
positive returns. Uh that is a feat uh
not achieved by many of uh emerging
markets ever. Uh however we there is a
case for some sort of impact on
secondary market performance because a
lot of liquidity uh is absorbed for the
new IPOs or new listings coming. Hence
for rest of the year we may see uh some
weakness in secondary market
right on that fairly positive tone it's
a banter of course as Joji there in
Mumbai for us our Asia equity report big
one of course coming through in the next
week or so um mark your calendars now
October 14th right uh coming up here on
television in fact just on this very
topic this booming IPO pipeline in India
the Bombay sock exchange CEO joins Amen
exclusively of course an insight. Plus,
we'll get his outlook on the derivatives
and options markets there as well.
[Music]
Right. Uh, welcome back. So, day two in
Japan is not a strong Taiwan. The
reopening today said it's playing a bit
of catchup. of course the AI and chip
play there. Odds going the opposite way.
We are of course in the lunch break over
in Japan. Uh we're watching Europe very
closely as we move into the trading
session there on Tuesday. The blowout in
yields, the weakness we're seeing in the
currency. Uh and really we were supposed
to be talking about a weaker dollar this
week on the back of the shutdown, but
Japan and then Europe happened. So hence
we're trading at about these levels. Uh
gold seems to be a story that keeps
giving here.
>> Well, there's sort of three stories
really for gold to track today. Firstly,
you've seen the PBOC extending its gold
buying spree for 11 straight months.
That's one of the reasons we've been
seeing so much momentum behind gold
prices. Then you've got as well the the
story that Goldman Sachs has upgraded
their their price target year end for
2026, but to $4,900 an ounce. And then
lastly, we had an interview uh with with
Ken Griffin from Citadel as well.
>> Yeah. And that's one of the top run
stories as well on the Bloomberg
terminal today.
>> Yeah. He's saying that essentially
investors starting to view gold as a
safer asset than the dollar. And that is
a development that's really concerning
to him, probably concerning to a lot of
people out there.
>> All right, we will see you all tomorrow.
That's it from us here on the China
show. Papa good to stay ahead.
[Music]